# Streamflow Forecasting With Machine Learning 

## Original Abstract
Many streams across Hawaiʻi lack stream discharge monitoring due to technical and financial constraints. Yet, stream discharge information is critical for island water budgets, understanding pollution transport, and studying stream ecosystems. Within the field of artificial intelligence, deep learning methods have become a popular tool for forecasting and modeling these natural processes. Deep learning methods allow us to estimate the discharge of streams that lack gages and corresponding data. In this work, we implement and test several variations of recurrent neural networks to predict stream discharge on the island of Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi. Recurrent neural networks were selected based on their advantages over other data-driven artificial neural networks and statistical models. Each model was fed observed precipitation data along with other meteorological data such as temperature and humidity in combination with existing stream discharge records. These models were used to forecast the daily streamflow discharge of Mānoa, Makiki, and Pālolo Streams. Our results demonstrate that deep learning can be successfully used to predict stream discharge in tropical island settings. Modeling the streamflows of Mānoa, Makiki, and Pālolo Streams will serve as the basis for transfer-learning techniques for other streams that lack credible stream discharge records, providing vital stream discharge information for these locations and proof of concept for locations beyond Oʻahu. 

## V2: Applying Further Feature Engineering Techniques and Different Models for Analysis

